content/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "About Me"
description = "Landing page for projects"
date = "2019-07-01"
+++

# About me

I am a Ph.D student in the Integrative Genetic and Genomics (IGG) graduate group of
the University of California, Davis. Briefly, I am interested in studying
the mechanisms of complex gene expression regulation 
using from both a computational and experimental perspectives. 
I am currently taking part in lab rotations and coursework.

Before starting with IGG, I did work in Soybean genomics, X-ray crystallography,
and high-throughput macromolecule crystallization, the last of which I am still actively
involved in. For the full details of my current and previous projects head over
to the [Projects page]({{< ref "Projects" >}}). If you are short on time 
and / or would prefer brevity you can download a copy of my 
[current CV](/cv/holleman_cv.pdf).

Outside of research I enjoy learning about and building gadgets with micro-controllers
and [Raspberry Pi computers](https://github.com/EthanHolleman/fridge_master_2000), 
fishing at Lake Beryessa and [Putah Creek](/posts/putah_fishing/), biking
around Davis, and 
[playing poker](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/courses/soco/projects/1998-99/game-theory/neumann.html).

# About this site

At this site you can find information about my current and past professional and
personal projects. I will do my best to keep things as up to date as possible but there
may be some lag time between this reality and the one you are experiencing. 

Below is a summary of what you can find at each main section of the site.

## Projects

Long-from non-technical descriptions of past and present research mixed in with
similar accounts of more personal projects. Read these to get an idea of what
I have been working on in both academic and personal capacities. Currently the most
work in progress part of the site.

## Posts

Short blog-like entries on various topics I am interested in.

# Note

This site is currently under construction.

Commit message:

Update homepage and poker winnings

content/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "About Me"
description = "Landing page for projects"
date = "2019-07-01"
+++

# About me

I am a Ph.D student in the Integrative Genetic and Genomics (IGG) graduate group of
the University of California, Davis. Briefly, I am interested in studying
the mechanisms of complex gene expression regulation and all the methods 
/ struggle therein required for making interesting biological insights. 
I am currently taking part in lab rotations and coursework.

Before starting with IGG, I did work in Soybean genomics, X-ray crystallography,
and high-throughput macromolecule crystallization, the last of which I am still actively
involved in. For the full details of my current and previous projects head over
to the [Projects page]({{< ref "Projects" >}}). If you are short on time 
and / or would prefer brevity you can download a copy of my 
[current CV](/cv/holleman_cv.pdf).

Outside of research I enjoy learning about and building gadgets with micro-controllers
and [Raspberry Pi computers](https://github.com/EthanHolleman/fridge_master_2000), 
fishing at Lake Beryessa and [Putah Creek](/posts/putah_fishing/), biking
around Davis, and 
[playing poker](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/courses/soco/projects/1998-99/game-theory/neumann.html).

# About this site

At this site you can find information about my current and past professional and
personal projects. I will do my best to keep things as up to date as possible but there
may be some lag time between this reality and the one you are experiencing. 

Below is a summary of what you can find at each main section of the site.

## Projects

Long-from non-technical descriptions of past and present research mixed in with
similar accounts of more personal projects. Read these to get an idea of what
I have been working on in both academic and personal capacities. Currently the most
work in progress part of the site. One posted with more coming soon.

## Posts

Short blog-like entries on various topics I am interested in ranging from
[visualizing esoterically encoded Vietnam War data]({{< ref "vietnam_data.md" >}})
to my friends and I's [running poker night results]({{< ref "running_winnings.md" >}}).

# Note

This site is currently under construction.
